# Crypto-Project
## Research Question:
Is it possible to accurately predict the changes in cryptocurrency valuation in the market using the previous days data? Are we able to make a profit off these predictions?

## Data:
In order to acquire the necessary data, I found the top cryptocurrencies off of Yahoo Finance with a market valuation of over $1 billion. After scraping the list using BeautifulSoup, I used the AlphaVantage API to retrieve the market data for each currency in regard to the USD. The AlphaVantage API returned the historic prices for the open, close, high, low of the day, as well as the volume of trades. With this information, I was able to do some data manipulation in order to create pertinent data points such as volatility, profit, and sing and exponential moving averages. These data points were important to make inferences on the type of trading day that could influence the profit for the following day. 

## Modeling:
Initially, I had hoped to use an ARIMA model to try to predict the fluctuations of the stock prices. However, the white noise inherent in the data proved to be greater than the seasonality and trend, and did not provide consistent predictions that could be used to determine profitability. Instead, I attempted to classify whether a day would be profitable (if the close price was greater than the open) using the day before's market movement. The idea here was that based off the sale volume (the amount of trades on a particular currency), the volatility (difference between the high and low price of the day) and other trends from the day before, the model would determine if the stock would close with an increase from its open. I then used gridsearch to enhance my classifiers in hopes of finding the most accurate model.

### Classification Modeling:
My most accurate models were Decision Tree and Random Forest models which had an accuracy score of 55% and 56% respectively. It was important to focus on accuracy because investing on days we want to avoid investing on days of a loss as much as we want to capitalize on a day there's a gain. Unfortunately my model was not accurate enough to return a gain had we followed it for investing. This can be attributed to both the various differences in each crypto, as well as that the model did not consider stronger gains or heavier losses weighted any differently from less extreme changes. In hopes of improving this model, I would like to incorporate a regression model that might try to predict the slope of the change, so that the risk can help to discern when to buy or not.
